README.md, before:

# TypeScript Developer Course in 2024 – Beginner to Expert

<img src="./assets/images/ts_icon_256.png" alt="TypeScrip" width="32" height="32">

- [TypeScript Developer Course in 2024 – Beginner to Expert](#typescript-developer-course-in-2024--beginner-to-expert)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [TypeScript Setup](#typescript-setup)
  - [Getting Started with Types in TypeScript](#getting-started-with-types-in-typescript)
  - [Conditionals and Loops in TypeScript](#conditionals-and-loops-in-typescript)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 1](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-1)
  - [Functions in TypeScript](#functions-in-typescript)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 2](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-2)
  - [TypeScript Basic Types](#typescript-basic-types)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 3](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-3)
  - [Generics](#generics)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 4](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-4)
  - [Type Narrowing \& Widenning](#type-narrowing--widenning)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 5](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-5)
  - [Interfaces](#interfaces)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 6](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-6)
  - [Beyond Basic Types](#beyond-basic-types)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 7](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-7)
  - [Enums Further Exploration](#enums-further-exploration)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 8](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-8)
  - [OOP in TypeScript](#oop-in-typescript)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 9](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-9)
  - [Type Queries](#type-queries)
  - [Conditional Types](#conditional-types)
  - [Utility Types](#utility-types)
  - [Mapped Types](#mapped-types)
  - [Modules](#modules)
  - [TypeScript and Webpack](#typescript-and-webpack)
  - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [References](#references)

## Introduction

TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript that provides optional static typing, classes, and interfaces. One of the big benefits is to enable IDEs to provide a richer environment for spotting common errors as you type the code. TypeScript can report issues that you may not be aware of because it can infer types. This course will teach you everything you need to know about TypeScript, starting from the basics and going all the way to advanced topics.

When writing Javascript, you should start the file eith "use strict" to avoid common mistakes. This declaration at the beggining of the file will make the code run in strict mode, which means that you can't use undeclared variables. This will help you avoid common mistakes.

## TypeScript Setup

My current setup is as follows:

```
$ node -v
v20.9.0
$ npm -v
10.1.0
$ tsc -v
Version 5.5.4
```

Set the default formatter to Prettier in VS Code by adding the following to the settings.json file:

```
    "[typescript]": {
    "editor.defaultFormatter": "esbenp.prettier-vscode"
    },
    "editor.formatOnSave": true,
```

Create the tsconfig.json file by running the following command:

```bash
$ tsc --init
```

## Getting Started with Types in TypeScript

TypeScript is a statically typed language, which means that you can specify the type of a variable when you declare it. This is useful because it allows you to catch errors at compile time, rather than at runtime. TypeScript has several built-in types, including number, string, boolean, and any. You can also create your own custom types using interfaces and enums.

## Conditionals and Loops in TypeScript

In TypeScript, you can use the if statement to execute a block of code if a condition is true. You can also use the else statement to execute a block of code if the condition is false. TypeScript also has a switch statement, which allows you to execute different blocks of code based on the value of a variable. You can use the for loop to iterate over an array or object, and the while loop to execute a block of code as long as a condition is true.

The difference between for in, for of, and forEach is that for in iterates over the keys of an object, for of iterates over the values of an array, and forEach iterates over the values of an array and does not return anything.

For in is used to iterate over the **keys** of an object, for of is used to iterate over the **values** of an array, and forEach is used to iterate over the **values** of an array and does not return anything.

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 1

## Functions in TypeScript

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 2

## TypeScript Basic Types

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 3

## Generics

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 4

## Type Narrowing & Widenning

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 5

## Interfaces

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 6

## Beyond Basic Types

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 7

## Enums Further Exploration

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 8

## OOP in TypeScript

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 9

## Type Queries

## Conditional Types

## Utility Types

## Mapped Types

## Modules

## TypeScript and Webpack

## Conclusion

# References

1. [TypeScript Documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)
2. [TypeScript Handbook](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/intro.html)
3. [TypeScript Playground](https://www.typescriptlang.org/play)

```

```

Commit message:

Add void type demonstration with printHello function and shoppingCart example

README.md, after:

# TypeScript Developer Course in 2024 – Beginner to Expert

<img src="./assets/images/ts_icon_256.png" alt="TypeScrip" width="32" height="32">

- [TypeScript Developer Course in 2024 – Beginner to Expert](#typescript-developer-course-in-2024--beginner-to-expert)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [TypeScript Setup](#typescript-setup)
  - [Getting Started with Types in TypeScript](#getting-started-with-types-in-typescript)
  - [Conditionals and Loops in TypeScript](#conditionals-and-loops-in-typescript)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 1](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-1)
  - [Functions in TypeScript](#functions-in-typescript)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 2](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-2)
  - [TypeScript Basic Types](#typescript-basic-types)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 3](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-3)
  - [Generics](#generics)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 4](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-4)
  - [Type Narrowing \& Widenning](#type-narrowing--widenning)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 5](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-5)
  - [Interfaces](#interfaces)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 6](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-6)
  - [Beyond Basic Types](#beyond-basic-types)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 7](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-7)
  - [Enums Further Exploration](#enums-further-exploration)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 8](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-8)
  - [OOP in TypeScript](#oop-in-typescript)
  - [Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 9](#lets-get-you-coding-challenges---part-9)
  - [Type Queries](#type-queries)
  - [Conditional Types](#conditional-types)
  - [Utility Types](#utility-types)
  - [Mapped Types](#mapped-types)
  - [Modules](#modules)
  - [TypeScript and Webpack](#typescript-and-webpack)
  - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [References](#references)

## Introduction

TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript that provides optional static typing, classes, and interfaces. One of the big benefits is to enable IDEs to provide a richer environment for spotting common errors as you type the code. TypeScript can report issues that you may not be aware of because it can infer types. This course will teach you everything you need to know about TypeScript, starting from the basics and going all the way to advanced topics.

When writing Javascript, you should start the file eith "use strict" to avoid common mistakes. This declaration at the beggining of the file will make the code run in strict mode, which means that you can't use undeclared variables. This will help you avoid common mistakes.

## TypeScript Setup

My current setup is as follows:

```
$ node -v
v20.9.0
$ npm -v
10.1.0
$ tsc -v
Version 5.5.4
```

Set the default formatter to Prettier in VS Code by adding the following to the settings.json file:

```
    "[typescript]": {
    "editor.defaultFormatter": "esbenp.prettier-vscode"
    },
    "editor.formatOnSave": true,
```

Create the tsconfig.json file by running the following command:

```bash
$ tsc --init
```

To run the TypeScript compiler in watch mode, use the following command:

```bash
$ tsc -w
```

## Getting Started with Types in TypeScript

TypeScript is a statically typed language, which means that you can specify the type of a variable when you declare it. This is useful because it allows you to catch errors at compile time, rather than at runtime. TypeScript has several built-in types, including number, string, boolean, and any. You can also create your own custom types using interfaces and enums.

## Conditionals and Loops in TypeScript

In TypeScript, you can use the if statement to execute a block of code if a condition is true. You can also use the else statement to execute a block of code if the condition is false. TypeScript also has a switch statement, which allows you to execute different blocks of code based on the value of a variable. You can use the for loop to iterate over an array or object, and the while loop to execute a block of code as long as a condition is true.

The difference between for in, for of, and forEach is that for in iterates over the keys of an object, for of iterates over the values of an array, and forEach iterates over the values of an array and does not return anything.

For in is used to iterate over the **keys** of an object, for of is used to iterate over the **values** of an array, and forEach is used to iterate over the **values** of an array and does not return anything.

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 1

## Functions in TypeScript

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 2

## TypeScript Basic Types

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 3

## Generics

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 4

## Type Narrowing & Widenning

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 5

## Interfaces

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 6

## Beyond Basic Types

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 7

## Enums Further Exploration

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 8

## OOP in TypeScript

## Let's Get You Coding Challenges - Part 9

## Type Queries

## Conditional Types

## Utility Types

## Mapped Types

## Modules

## TypeScript and Webpack

## Conclusion

# References

1. [TypeScript Documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)
2. [TypeScript Handbook](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/intro.html)
3. [TypeScript Playground](https://www.typescriptlang.org/play)

```

```
